A heap data structure is a tree-based data structure in which each node of the tree has a specific relationship with other nodes,
and they are stored in a specific order. Depending upon the specific order of the nodes in the tree, heaps can be of different types,
such as a min heap and a max heap. 

A heap data structure is a specialization of a tree in which the nodes are ordered in a specific way. A heap is a data structure where
each data elements satisfies a heap property, and the heap property states that there must be a certain relationship between a parent
node and its child nodes. According to this certain relationship in the tree, the heaps can be of two types, in other words, max heaps
and min heaps. In a max heap, each parent node value must always be greater than or equal to all its children. In this kind of tree,
the root node must be the greatest value in the tree. In a min heap, the relationship between parent and children is that the value
of the parent node must always be less than or equal to its children. This rule should be followed by all the nodes in the tree. 
In the min heap, the root node holds the lowest value. 

Insert operation
The insertion of an item into a min heap works in two steps. First, we add the new element to the end of the list (which we understand
to be the bottom of the tree), and we increment the size of the heap by one. Secondly, after each insertion operation, we need to 
arrange the new element up in the heap tree, to organize all the nodes in such a way that satisfies the heap property, which in this
case is that each node must be larger than its parent. In other words, the value of the parent node must always be less than or equal
to its children, and the lowest element in the min-heap needs to be the root element. Therefore, we first insert an element into the
last heap of the tree; however, after inserting an element into the heap, it is possible that the heap property is violated. In that
case, the nodes have to be rearranged so that all the nodes satisfy the heap property. This process is called heapifying. To heapify 
the min heap, we need to find the minimum of its children and swap it with the current element, and this process has to be repeated 
until the heap property is satisfied for all the nodes.

Delete operation
The delete operation removes an element from the heap. To delete any element from the heap, let’s first discuss how we can delete the root
element since it is mostly used for several use cases, such as finding the minimum or maximum element in a heap. Remember, in a min-heap,
the root element denotes the minimum value of the list, and the root of the max-heap gives the maximum value of the list of elements.

Once we delete the root element from the heap, we make the last element of the heap the new root of the heap. In that case, the heap
property will not be satisfied by the tree. So, we have to reorganize the nodes of the tree such that all the nodes of the tree satisfy 
the heap property. The delete operation in min-heap works as follows.

- 1. Once we delete the root node, we need a new root node. For this, we take the last item from the list and make it the new root.

- 2. Since the selected last node might not be the lowest element of the heap, we have to reorganize the nodes of the heap.

- 3. We reorganize the nodes from the root node to the last node (which is made into a new root); this process is called heapify.
Since we move from top to bottom (which means from the root node down to the last element) of the heap, this process is called percolate down

A priority queue is an important data structure that is similar to the queue and stack data structures that stores data along with the priority
associated with them. In this, the data is served according to the priority. Priority queues can be implemented using an array, linked list, 
and trees; however, they are often implemented using a heap as it is very efficient.

A priority queue is a data structure that is similar to a queue in which data is retrieved based on the First In, First Out (FIFO) policy,
but in the priority queue, priority is attached with the data. In the priority queue, the data is retrieved based on the priority associated
with the data elements, the data elements with the highest priority are retrieved before the lower priority data elements,and if two data
elements have the same priority, they are retrieved according to the FIFO policy.

In the priority queue, the item with the highest priority is served first. The priority queue stores the data according to the priority
associated with the data, so insertion of an element will be at a specific position in the priority queue. Priority queues can be considered
as modified queues that return the items in the order of highest priority instead of returning the items in the FIFO order. A priority queue
can be implemented by modifying an enqueue position by inserting the item according to the priority.

Insertion 

In the implementation, we assume that the data element has high priority if it has a smaller priority value. The following are cases of insertion
of elements in a priority queue:
- 1. Insertion of a data element to the priority queue when the queue is initially empty.

- 2. If the queue is not empty, we perform the traversal of the queue and reach the appropriate index position in the queue according to the
associated priorities by comparing the priorities of the existing node with the new node. We add the new node before the node that has a
priority greater than the new node.

- 3. If the new node has a lower priority than the high priority value, then the node will be added to the start of the queue.

