These types of data structures have certain advantages over arrays. In the case of arrays, insertion and deletion
are quite time-consuming as these operations require the shifting of elements downward and upward, respectively, due
to contiguous memory allocations. On the other hand, in the case of linked lists, these operations require only changes
in pointers. Another advantage of linked lists over arrays is the allowance of a dynamic memory management scheme that
allocates memory during the runtime as and when needed, while the array is based on a static memory allocation scheme.


The singly linked list can traverse in a forward direction only, while traversal in doubly linked lists is bidirectional,
hence the reason why the deletion of a node in a doubly linked list is easy compared to a singly linked list. Similarly,
circular linked lists save time while accessing the first node from the last node as compared to the singly linked list.
Thus, each list has its advantages and disadvantages. We should use them as per the requirements of the application


Practical applications of linked lists:
Singly linked lists, circular linked lists, and doubly linked lists.Depending upon what kind of operations (insertion, deletion,
updating, and so on) will be required in different applications, these data structures are used accordingly.

Singly linked lists can be used to represent any sparse matrix. Another important application is to represent and manipulate
polynomials by accumulating constants in the node of linked lists.

It can also be used in implementing a dynamic memory management scheme that allows the user to allocate and deallocate the memory
as per requirements during the execution of programs

On the other hand, doubly linked lists are used by the thread schedular in the operating system to maintain the list of processes 
running at that time. These lists are also used in the implementation of MRU (most recently used) and LRU (least recently used) 
cache in the operating system.

A doubly linked list is quite similar to the singly linked list in the sense that we use the same fundamental concept of nodes
along with how we can store data and links together, as we did in a singly linked list. The only difference between a singly linked
list and a doubly linked list is that in a singly linked list, there is only one link between each successive node, whereas, in a 
doubly linked list, we have two pointers—a pointer to the next node and a pointer to the previous node.

Doubly linked lists can also be used by various applications to implement Undo and Redo functionality. The browsers can use these 
lists to implement backward and forward navigation of the web pages visited

A circular linked list is a special case of a linked list. In a circular linked list, the endpoints are connected, which means that
the last node in the list points back to the first node. In other words, we can say that in circular linked lists, all the nodes 
point to the next node (and the previous node in the case of a doubly linked list) and there is no end node, meaning no node will point to None.

A circular linked list can be used by operating systems to implement a round-robin scheduling mechanism. Another application of 
circular linked lists is to implement Undo functionality in Photoshop or Word software and use it in implementing a browser cache
that allows you to hit the BACK button. Besides that, it is also used to implement advanced data structures such as the Fibonacci
heap. Multiplayer games also use a circular linked list to swap between players in a loop
